
* `core.autocommands`

  *** 

  Handles the creation and management of Neovim’s autocommands. 

* Overview

  This internal module exposes functionality for subscribing to autocommands and performing actions based on those autocommands. 

****** NOTE: This module will be soon deprecated, and it’s favourable to use the `vim.api*` functions instead.

       In your `module.setup()`, make sure to require `core.autocommands` (`requires = { "core.autocommands" \}`)
       Afterwards in a function of your choice that gets called /after/ core.autocommmands gets intialized (e.g. `load()`): 

       @code lua
       module.load = function()
           module.required["core.autocommands"].enable_autocommand("VimLeavePre") -- Substitute VimLeavePre for any valid neovim autocommand
       end
       @end

       Afterwards, be sure to subscribe to the event: 

       @code lua
       module.events.subscribed = {
           ["core.autocommands"] = {
               vimleavepre = true
           }
       }
       @end

       Upon receiving an event, it will come in this format: 

       @code lua
       {
           type = "core.autocommands.events.<name of autocommand, e.g. vimleavepre>",
           broadcast = true
       }
       @end

* Configuration

  This module provides no configuration options! 

* Required By

  - {:Concealer:}[`core.concealer`] - Enhances the basic Neorg experience by using icons instead of text. 
  - {:Dirman:}[`core.dirman`] - This module is be responsible for managing directories full of .norg files. 
  - {:Indent:}[`core.esupports.indent`] - A set of instructions for Neovim to indent Neorg documents. 
  - {:Metagen:}[`core.esupports.metagen`] - A Neorg module for generating document metadata automatically. 
  - {:Core-Highlights:}[`core.highlights`] - Manages your highlight groups with this module. 
  - {:Core-Latex-Renderer:}[`core.latex.renderer`] - An experimental module for rendering latex images inline. 
  - {:Storage:}[`core.storage`] - Deals with storing persistent data across Neorg sessions. 
  - {:Syntax:}[`core.syntax`] - Handles interaction for syntax files for code blocks. 

