
* `core.export.markdown`

*** Neorg’s Markdown Exporter

* Overview

  This module exists as an interface for `core.export` to export `.norg` files to Markdown.
  As a user the only reason you would ever have to touch this module is to configure /how/ you’d
  like your markdown to be exported (i.e. do you want to support certain extensions during the export).
  To learn more about configuration, consult the {#configuration}[relevant section]. 

* Configuration

** extension (string)

   Used by the exporter to know what extension to use
   when creating markdown files.
   The default is recommended, although you can change it. 

   default: `"md"` 

** extensions (empty list)

   Any extensions you may want to use when exporting to markdown. By
   default no extensions are loaded (the exporter is commonmark compliant).
   You can also set this value to `"all"` to enable all extensions.
   The full extension list is: `todo-items-basic`, `todo-items-pending`, `todo-items-extended`,
   `definition-lists`, `mathematics`, `metadata` and `latex`. 

** mathematics (table)

   Data about how to render mathematics.
   The default is recommended as it is the most common, although certain flavours
   of markdown use different syntax. 

*** block (table)

    Block-level mathematics are represented as such: 

    @code md
    $$
    \frac{3, 2}
    $$
    @end

**** end (string)

     default: `"$$"` 

**** start (string)

     default: `"$$"` 

*** inline (table)

    Inline mathematics are represented `$like this$`. 

**** end (string)

     default: `"$"` 

**** start (string)

     default: `"$"` 

** metadata (table)

   Data about how to render metadata
   There are a few ways to render metadata blocks, but this is the most
   common. 

*** end (string)

    default: `"---"` 

*** start (string)

    default: `"---"` 

* Dependencies

  - {:Treesitter-Integration:}[`core.integrations.treesitter`] - A module designed to integrate Treesitter into Neorg. 

