
* `core.integrations.treesitter`

*** Snazzy Treesitter Integration

* Configuration

** configure_parsers (boolean)

   If true will auto-configure the parsers to use the recommended setup.
   Set to false only if you know what you’re doing, or if the setting messes
   with your personal configuration. 

   default: `true` 

** install_parsers (boolean)

   If true will automatically install Norg parsers if they are not present. 

   default: `true` 

** parser_configs (table)

   Configurations for each parser as required by `nvim-treesitter`.
   If you would like to tweak your parser configs you may do so here. 

*** norg (table)

    Configuration for the mainline norg parser. 

**** branch (string)

     default: `"main"` 

**** files (list)

     - \(string)  default: `"src/parser.c"` 
     - \(string)  default: `"src/scanner.cc"` 

**** revision (string)

     default: `"6348056b999f06c2c7f43bb0a5aa7cfde5302712"` 

**** url (string)

     default: `"https://github.com/nvim-neorg/tree-sitter-norg"` 

*** norg_meta (table)

    Configuration for the metadata parser (used to parse the contents
    of `@document.meta` blocks). 

**** branch (string)

     default: `"main"` 

**** files (list)

     - \(string)  default: `"src/parser.c"` 

**** revision (string)

     default: `"a479d1ca05848d0b51dd25bc9f71a17e0108b240"` 

**** url (string)

     default: `"https://github.com/nvim-neorg/tree-sitter-norg-meta"` 

* Dependencies

  - {:Core-Highlights:}[`core.highlights`] - Manages your highlight groups with this module. 

* Required By

  - {:Clipboard:}[`core.clipboard`] - A module to manipulate and interact with the user’s clipboard. 
  - {:Completion:}[`core.completion`] - A wrapper to interface with several different completion engines. 
  - {:Concealer:}[`core.concealer`] - Enhances the basic Neorg experience by using icons instead of text. 
  - {:Esupports-Hop:}[`core.esupports.hop`] - "Hop" between Neorg links, following them with a single keypress. 
  - {:Indent:}[`core.esupports.indent`] - A set of instructions for Neovim to indent Neorg documents. 
  - {:Metagen:}[`core.esupports.metagen`] - A Neorg module for generating document metadata automatically. 
  - {:Exporting-Files:}[`core.export`] - Exports Neorg documents into any other supported filetype. 
  - {:Markdown-Export:}[`core.export.markdown`] - Interface for `core.export` to allow exporting to markdown. 
  - {:Itero:}[`core.itero`] - Module designed to continue lists, headings and other iterables. 
  - {:Journal:}[`core.journal`] - Easily track a journal within Neorg. 
  - {:Core-Latex-Renderer:}[`core.latex.renderer`] - An experimental module for rendering latex images inline. 
  - {:Looking-Glass:}[`core.looking-glass`] - Allows for editing of code blocks within a separate buffer. 
  - {:Pivot:}[`core.pivot`] - Toggles the type of list currently under the cursor. 
  - {:Core-Presenter:}[`core.presenter`] - Neorg module to create gorgeous presentation slides. 
  - {:Promo:}[`core.promo`] - Promotes or demotes nestable items within Neorg files. 
  - {:TOC:}[`core.qol.toc`] - Generates a table of contents for a given Norg buffer. 
  - {:Todo-Items:}[`core.qol.todo_items`] - Module for implementing todo lists. 
  - {:Queries-Module:}[`core.queries.native`] - TS wrapper in order to fetch nodes using a custom table. 
  - {:Summary:}[`core.summary`] - Creates links to all files in any workspace. 
  - {:Syntax:}[`core.syntax`] - Handles interaction for syntax files for code blocks. 
  - {:Tangling:}[`core.tangle`] - An Advanced Code Block Exporter. 
  - {:Norg-Text-Objects:}[`core.text-objects`] - A Neorg module for moving and selecting elements of the document. 
  - {:Todo-Introspector:}[`core.todo-introspector`] - Module for displaying progress of completed subtasks in the virtual line. 

