docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributions welcome!
Whilst any help is very special (I'm only one guy managing this currently!), please be considerate of certain rules in order to make the codebase uniform/coherent.

---
### Table of Contents

- When you need help:
  - [What to do when you encounter a bug](#reporting-a-bug-or-issue)

- When contributing:
  - [Formatting rules](#formatting-rules)
  - [Coding style](#coding-style)
  - [Working with modules](#modules)
  - [Adding extra functionality](#adding-functionality)
  - [Module ideas](#ideas-for-modules-if-you-dont-have-any)
---

### Reporting a bug or issue
Whenever something happens the way it's not supposed to, [file an issue!](https://github.com/Vhyrro/neorg/issues/new/choose), but before you do, try the following:
- If you haven't already, always try updating the plugin first. Issues may be fixed before you can even file one, so always make sure you are up to date beforehand.
- Make sure you are running the latest neovim version. Whenever I test neorg, I test it on the latest compiled neovim from source which I recompile everyday. While you don't have to be *that* extreme with your updates, make sure you're at least running the latest neovim nightly.

If you're certain it's a fault of the plugin, not your configuration, in the issue please provide the following:
- The neovim version you're running (`nvim --version`)
- The neorg log file (you'll find it at `stdpath('data') .. 'neorg.log'`). This file will contain the necessary info for me to effectively debug. 
- The branch of neorg you are using
- The list of modules you have loaded
- Other plugins you are using which you think could potentially be conflicting with neorg.
- Steps to reproduce the bug, if any - sometimes bugs get triggered only on certain configurations, which can be a pain. If you're aware that the bug requires a specific config, be sure to include that information as well!

---

### Formatting rules
- When using a `require()` statement, use single quotes. For example:
  ```lua
    require('neorg.modules.base')
  ```
- Use double quotes `"` eveywhere else. For example:
  ```lua
    local module = neorg.modules.create("core.mymodulename")
  ```
  
### Coding style
- I use snake_case for everything, and you should too :P
- **Please** comment all your code! Documenation for functions is generated by [prodoc.nvim](https://github.com/glepnir/prodoc.nvim).

### Modules
- When creating a module, add a comment up top as seen [here](/lua/neorg/modules/core/autocommands/module.lua) and [here](/lua/neorg/modules/core/keybinds/module.lua)
- Add a general description of what the module does at the top and provide a `USAGE:` block describing how to use the module
- Try to only access neorg data through functions, not through tables (e.g. don't access parts of `neorg.modules.loaded_modules` you're not supposed to - if anything only access the public fields exposed by other modules). Use the API as much as possible.

## Adding functionality
Whenever you are planning on extending neorg, try your best to add *all* extra functionality through modules and modules only. Make changes to the neorg core only if absolutely necessary.
When adding stuff, use lua only. `vim.cmd` in extreme cases :)

### Ideas for modules if you don't have any:
- [ ] A `core.api` module to wrap potential internal functions and add extra safety checks so they can be used by anyone.
- [ ] A `core.norg` module to read, parse and convert .norg files into a sort of syntax tree (currently being worked on)
- [ ] A utility module to add wrap several monotonous functions
- [ ] A module to simplify interactions and manipulation of text, something really important for a plugin like neorg :)

Commit message:

docs: refine the files in the docs/ directory
Former-commit-id: e4d6bc5cf1b3a4c08d480082cbcfdb7b19482d70

docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributions welcome!
Whilst any help is very special (I'm only one guy managing this currently!), please be considerate of certain rules in order to make the codebase uniform/coherent.

---
### Table of Contents

- When you need help:
  - [What to do when you encounter a bug](#reporting-a-bug-or-issue)

- When contributing:
  - [Formatting rules](#formatting-rules)
  - [Coding style](#coding-style)
  - [Working with modules](#modules)
  - [Adding extra functionality](#adding-functionality)
  - [Module ideas](#ideas-for-modules-if-you-dont-have-any)
---

### Reporting a bug or issue
Whenever something happens the way it's not supposed to, [file an issue!](https://github.com/Vhyrro/neorg/issues/new/choose), but before you do, try the following:
- If you haven't already, always try updating the plugin first. Issues may be fixed before you can even file one, so always make sure you are up to date beforehand.
- Make sure you are running the latest neovim version. Whenever I test neorg, I test it on the latest compiled neovim from source which I recompile everyday. While you don't have to be *that* extreme with your updates, make sure you're at least running the latest neovim nightly.

If you're certain it's a fault of the plugin, not your configuration, in the issue please provide the following:
- The neovim version you're running (`nvim --version`)
- The neorg log file (you'll find it at `stdpath('data') .. '/neorg.log'`). This file will contain the necessary info for me to effectively debug. 
  You can run `:echo stdpath('data')` if you're unsure where that path resides.
- The branch of Neorg you are using (unstable/main)
- The list of modules you have loaded
- Other plugins you are using which you think could potentially be conflicting with neorg.
- Steps to reproduce the bug, if any - sometimes bugs get triggered only on certain configurations, which can be a pain. If you're aware that the bug requires a specific config, be sure to include that information as well!

---

### Formatting rules
- When using a `require()` statement, use single quotes. For example:
  ```lua
    require('neorg.modules.base')
  ```
- Use double quotes `"` eveywhere else. For example:
  ```lua
    local module = neorg.modules.create("core.mymodulename")
  ```
  
### Coding style
- I use snake_case for everything, and you should too :P
- **Please** comment all your code! Documenation for functions is generated by [prodoc.nvim](https://github.com/glepnir/prodoc.nvim).

### Modules
- When creating a module, add a comment up top as seen [here](/lua/neorg/modules/core/autocommands/module.lua) and [here](/lua/neorg/modules/core/keybinds/module.lua)
- Add a general description of what the module does at the top and provide a `USAGE:` block describing how to use the module
- Try to only access neorg data through functions, not through tables (e.g. don't access parts of `neorg.modules.loaded_modules` you're not supposed to - if anything only access the public fields exposed by other modules). Use the API as much as possible.

## Adding functionality
Whenever you are planning on extending neorg, try your best to add *all* extra functionality through modules and modules only. Make changes to the Neorg core only if absolutely necessary.
When adding stuff, use lua only. `vim.cmd` in extreme cases :)
